Replace basically everything (#13)
JuliaDiff/juliadiff.github.io: JuliaDiff/index.md

@def title = "JuliaDiff"
@def tags = ["JuliaLang", "AutoDiff", "AD"]

@@topmatter
# JuliaDiff
Differentiation tools in [Julia](https://julialang.org).
[JuliaDiff on GitHub](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/)
@@

## Stop approximating derivatives!

Derivatives are required at the core of many numerical algorithms. Unfortunately, they are usually computed _inefficiently_ and _approximately_ by some variant of the finite difference approach
$$ f'(x) \approx \frac{f(x+h) - f(x)}{h}, h \text{ small }. $$
This method is _inefficient_ because it requires $ \Omega(n) $ evaluations of $ f : \mathbb{R}^n \to \mathbb{R} $ to compute the gradient $ \nabla f(x) = \left( \frac{\partial f}{\partial x_1}(x), \cdots, \frac{\partial f}{\partial x_n}(x)\right) $, for example. It is _approximate_ because we have to choose some finite, small value of the step length $ h $, balancing floating-point precision with mathematical approximation error.

#### What can we do instead?

> One option is to explicitly write down a function which computes the exact derivatives by using the rules that we know from calculus. However, this quickly becomes an error-prone and tedious exercise. **There is another way!** The field of [automatic differentiation]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_differentiation") provides methods for automatically computing _exact_ derivatives (up to floating-point error) given only the function $ f $ itself. Some methods use many fewer evaluations of $ f $ than would be required when using finite differences. In the best case, **the exact gradient of $ f $ can be evaluated for the cost of $ O(1) $ evaluations of $ f $ itself**.  The caveat is that $ f $ cannot be considered a black box; instead, we require either access to the source code of $ f $ or a way to plug in a special type of number using operator overloading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One option is to explicitly write down a function which computes the exact derivatives by using the rules that we know from calculus. However, this quickly becomes an error-prone and tedious exercise. **There is another way!** The field of [automatic differentiation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_differentiation) provides methods for automatically computing _exact_ derivatives (up to floating-point error) given only the function $ f $ itself. Some methods use many fewer evaluations of $ f $ than would be required when using finite differences. In the best case, **the exact gradient of $ f $ can be evaluated for the cost of $ O(1) $ evaluations of $ f $ itself**.  The caveat is that $ f $ cannot be considered a black box; instead, we require either access to the source code of $ f $ or a way to plug in a special type of number using operator overloading.
```

I'm not sure the quotes change anything, but I've never seen them in MD reference

- [Enzyme.jl](https://github.com/wsmoses/Enzyme.jl): Scalar, LLVM source to source reverse-mode AD. Experimental.

### Forward mode
- [ForwardDiff.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ForwardDiff.jl): scalar operator overloading forward-mode AD. Very stable. Very well-established.
- [ForwardDiff2](https://github.com/YingboMa//ForwardDiff2.jl): experimental non-scalar hybrid operator-overloading/source-to-source forward-mode AD. Not currently in development.

### Symbolic:
- [ModelingToolKit.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiffEq/ModelingToolkit.jl): A pure Julia computer algebra system. While its docs focus on some particular domain use-case it is a fully general purpose system.

### Exotic
- [TaylorSeries.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/TaylorSeries.jl) computes polynomial expansions; which is the generalization of forward-mode AD to n-th order derivatives.
- [NiLang.jl](https://github.com/GiggleLiu/NiLang.jl): Reversible computing DSL, where everything is differentiable, by reversing.

### Finite Differencing
(yes, we said at the start to stop approximating deriviatives, but these packages are faster and more accurate than you would expect finite differencing to every achieve.)

> - [FiniteDifferences.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/FiniteDifferences.jl): High-accuracy finite differencing with support for almost any type (not just the usual arrays and numbers): [FiniteDiff](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/FiniteDiff.jl): High-accuracy finite differencing with support for efficient calculation of spares Jacobians via coloring vectors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [FiniteDifferences.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/FiniteDifferences.jl): High-accuracy finite differencing with support for almost any type (not just the usual arrays and numbers)
- [FiniteDiff](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/FiniteDiff.jl): High-accuracy finite differencing with support for efficient calculation of spares Jacobians via coloring vectors.
```

> - [FiniteDiff](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/FiniteDiff.jl): High-accuracy finite differencing with support for efficient calculation of spares Jacobians via coloring vectors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [FiniteDiff.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/FiniteDiff.jl): High-accuracy finite differencing with support for efficient calculation of spares Jacobians via coloring vectors.
```

> - [Calculus.jl](https://github.com/JuliaMath/Calculus.jl): Largely deprecated, legacy package. New users should look to FiniteDifferences and FiniteDiff instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Calculus.jl](https://github.com/JuliaMath/Calculus.jl): Largely deprecated, legacy package. New users should look to FiniteDifferences.jl and FiniteDiff.jl instead.
```

> ### Rulesets:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Rulesets
Packages providing collections of derivatives of functions which can be used in AD packages.
```

> - [ChainRules.jl](https://www.juliadiff.org/ChainRulesCore.jl/stable/): extensible AD independent rule-set.

Reviewer 3: Maybe some way to distinguish ChainRules-ecosystem from just ChainRules.jl?

```suggestion
- [ChainRules](https://www.juliadiff.org/ChainRulesCore.jl/stable/): Extensible, AD-independent rules.
```

Author: Ah yes I mean to do that but it got caught in a global find-replace when I added jl to everything

  - [ChainRulesCore.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesCore.jl): Core API for user to extend to add rules to their package.

>   - [ChainRules.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRules.jl/): the rules for Base and other standard libraries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - [ChainRules.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRules.jl/): Rules for Julia Base and standard libraries.
```

>   - [ChainRulesTestUtils.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/): testing tools to check rules defined with ChainRulesCore.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - [ChainRulesTestUtils.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/): Tools for testing rules defined with ChainRulesCore.jl.
```

> - [DiffRules.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesCore.jl): Original multi-AD system rule-set. Largely deprecated in-favor of ChainRules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [DiffRules.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesCore.jl): An earlier set of AD-independent rules. Largely deprecated in favor of the more extensible ChainRules.jl.
```

> - [ZygoteRules.jl](https://github.com/FluxML/ZygoteRules.jl/blob/master/src/ZygoteRules.jl): for adding rules to Zygote. Largely deprecated in-favour of ChainRules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [ZygoteRules.jl](https://github.com/FluxML/ZygoteRules.jl/blob/master/src/ZygoteRules.jl): For defining Zygote.jl specific rules. Largely deprecated in favour of the AD-independent ChainRules.jl.
```

### Sparsity

> - [SparsityDetection.jl](https://github.com/SciML/SparsityDetection.jl): automatic Jacobian and Hessian sparsity pattern detection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [SparsityDetection.jl](https://github.com/SciML/SparsityDetection.jl): Automatic Jacobian and Hessian sparsity pattern detection.
```

> - [SparseDiffTools.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/SparseDiffTools.jl): exploiting sparsity to speed up FiniteDiff and ForwardDiff; as well as other algorithms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [SparseDiffTools.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/SparseDiffTools.jl): Exploiting sparsity to speed up FiniteDiff.jl and ForwardDiff.jl, as well as other algorithms.
```

## Links for discussion and more information
Discussions on JuliaDiff and its uses may be directed to the [Julia Discourse forum](https://discourse.julialang.org/)
The [autodiff.org](http://www.autodiff.org/) site serves as a portal for the academic community, though it is often out-of-date.

> The ChainRules project maintains a [list of recommend-reading/watching](https://www.juliadiff.org/ChainRulesCore.jl/stable/FAQ.html#Where-can-I-learn-more-about-AD-?) for those after more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ChainRules project maintains a [list of recommend reading/watching](https://www.juliadiff.org/ChainRulesCore.jl/stable/FAQ.html#Where-can-I-learn-more-about-AD-?) for those after more information.
```

Finally, automatic differentiation techniques have been implemented in a variety of languages.

> If you would prefer not to use Julia, see the [wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_differentiation") for a comprehensive list of available packages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you would prefer not to use Julia, see the [wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_differentiation) for a comprehensive list of available packages.
```
